Welcome back everyone.
We're looking at data proof processing which is really a very important lesson for you in terms of the
workflow of building machine learning models.
Let's start with the basic importing the usual importing data.
Preparing it and plotting the data itself so we're looking at just basically Alstead again the nonlinear
characteristics of it and just have a good comparison of course if you are familiar with the gradient
descent this is what we're really doing here.
But rather than going through the extreme details of talking about the mechanics of gradient descent
I'm just going to show you the illustration of what happened if you are not or if you have not pre process
your data and the whole idea of gradient descent is two continuous.
It's an algorithm to identify what we call the laws errors.
So obviously it's a method to descent down meaning the idea as you can tell from the name is gradient
descent.
So as following the actual grading herself to go downhill and the actual gradient is measure of the
losses.
Okay.
So you're going from high loss to lower loss to lower loss and the steeper the gradient meaning the
fast faster the rate of drop.
That's the path that it chooses until it reaches a point whereby it cannot go any lower.
That was what we called the minima and the idea of doing this is that you are trying to lower the loss
okay or lower.
The difference between your prediction versus the actual real world real world value.
So it's really trying to minimize your losses or come to a point where by your prediction is really
close to the real world or the real or some poor data that you have.
So that is a one minute explanation of grandiose end I wanted to get in the way of you understanding
the pre processing the idea of pre processing.
I'm trying to actually explain here.
Now when it comes to pre processing I'm going to compare now with that piece of processing vs. with
pre processing and the speed is one although I can't illustrate here.
And the second thing really is the spot I will call the
you might not get to your ultimate goal of getting an optimal estimates of your coefficient or your
you know your value for your machine learning model.
If you don't pre processing done pretty process your data.
All right.
So let's just plot this out and you will know that as we actually go through these so-called epoch epoch.
Each cycle of looking at the data to estimate the so called coefficient.
You noticed it.
It seems to be okay until we reach while closer and closer to our final estimate of our coefficient.
Companies point it explode and the explosion really shows you how unstable the coefficient that we have
come to derived.
When we don't pre process the data.
Compare this to the pre processed data.
It starts with high error.
This is sums of squares of error and it continued the descent lower and lower to the point whereby it
just stable.
And this is the kind of behavior that we prefer to see when it comes to estimating our coefficient and
thus to comparison Hopper made a point of trying to pre process or data is always a good practice of
pre processing data beforehand before you start building your machine learning model.
Okay.
So that really gives you a very quick rundown of one of the benefits of performing data processing and
there are others as we go through the idea of pre processing.
You will be able to see more and more the difference between them and just an extension of the pre process
data.
We have the histogram of X the original data looks from zero to 40 and after scaling.
You'll notice that it actually range from minus four to four and with the Center mean off around zero
and the mean of this is around 10 for the DL.
The Alstead.
Okay so this is the actual data itself.
Right.
So let's look at data processing.
There are four types.
There is the mean removal.
Basically you are looking to get to shift your data to mean of zero and a deviation of 1 min max is
basically scaling it to a range.
Quite often is between 0 and 1.
Then you have the added 2 which is normalization and binary ization.
I'll go into a little bit more detail when we actually get to that point.
There are a couple of things here is that there are some assumptions that comes with pre processing
that every processing.
And these are economic assumptions that have been made and this is cyclic learn the documentation stating
how it works in real life.
They asked a couple assumptions first is that it follows a normal distribution and we know how well
basically home possible that the data that we have real will come close or remotely come close to normal
distribution.
Second thing is that the C is that most method are based on linear assumptions of course.
This is going to be broken from time to time and quite often actually.
And the third one is most machine learning requires the data to be standard normally distributed and
Gorgon which is normal really in other words we have zero mean the mean of zero and unit variance which
is another word for variance is 6 to 1.
And when it comes to cycle the documentation from the practitioner basically say they quite often ignore
the shape of the distribution and just transform the data center it by removing the mean value removing
mean value means we have a bias.
The bias here is not in the English word of the word bias.
Bias here means basically we have the value Y is both zero or below zero meaning it deviates from zero.
So we're trying to center it so that Y which is a dependent value is zero and s go up by dividing non
constant features by dest and deviations or Artemis.
That means we are converting the standard deviation down to 1 or variance of 1 to be more exact.
And let me just show you from Sakhalin and the training data here is really the stat we are looking
at specifically.
So you have 1 minus 1 2 2 0 2 and 0 1 0 and the mean here the axis is 0 0 meaning along this.
OK.
And along this and along this so as 1 2 0 0 minus 0 1 and 2 0 1.
So as you can tell from here that's why this mean is zero.
There also excess it could a 1 which is actually along.
OK so this is vertical instead of horizontal.
Let me show you one by one each of the four different types that we talked about here.
You have sanitization slash win removal slash variance scaling.
I'll leave you to do so and do the math.
That's not important for the purpose of machine learning.
It is useful to know that important to know as well.
But it's not as important when it comes to the actual practical application of it to understand how
it's used in a real war.
But I still strongly encourage you to actually dig into the data itself or dig into the algorithm what
it's done and the implications of not doing it versus the implications of doing it and the pitfalls
as well.
Those are the things that to keep in mind for now the focus of this lesson really is how do you actually
process the data.
So we have the pre processing which we actually import here.
This is the actual library itself.
Remember these are all original raw data.
And after your pre process it you notice that the mean is now 0 for all of the vertical and the standard
deviation is or 1.
So this is under standardization or mean remove or variance scaling so this is really the first method
that I wanted to cover with you.
There's one thing to keep in mind though is that when you are performing machine learning so far we
haven't talked about topic or splitting your data into training data versus test data.
You need to be mindful of the process of preparing a data and booting the machine learning model.
And when you are actually pre processing that data you should not process all your data.
You should only prepare says your training data OK and using the same scaler.
Okay you don't fit it again when it comes to working with the test data.
You only need to transform your test data otherwise the score creep forward or you are peeping at your
answer.
Start to creep in.
OK so that's the one part to be very mindful of.
So we first of all fit not this is just the training data and these are the mean these are the scale
and you're just transform your training data.
You don't actually go and fit your test data.
Okay.
That part is important.
And where we plotted out this is what it looks like.
And now you're only utilized to transform for your test data.
Okay.
The part is really crucial to understand ours.
You're gonna make the cardinal mistakes of allowing your algorithm to be trained on your test data.
Okay.
It's just like taking an exam you have already seen the test questions as well as the answer.
Of course you're going to perform well but what's the point of doing that.
You have done that.
It doesn't.
You have no idea whether you've learned the subject matter or not.
So that's the whole idea of make ensuring you don't fit your test data.
The second method is really on what we call mimics or scaling the feature to a range.
In this case we are scaling it to between 0 and 1.
So in the training data this is what are looking at.
Once you scale it and transform it and if you look at the actual data.
So I've noticed that by and large it's between 0 and 1.
Once you perform your fitting and transformation of your training data.
Notice that we're emphasizing on the training data then the data of the transform training data should
be should only be between 0 and 1 Okay.
It doesn't have to be zero does not to be is but it needs to be in that range of 0 to 1.
There shouldn't be any values that below zero nor should it be any value as above.
1 That is not the case however when you apply this Chinese form algorithm that you have fitted on the
training data and apply it to the test data in the test data it can go below zero or above one.
All right.
So that's the one key part here.
So looking at our original data is very much between minus one and two.
If you look at here we have minus three.
Now we have a four.
OK.
So obviously that these exceed the training data range.
And if I provide it as a test data and transform it if you look at test data noticed it it sees a and
it does exceed one.
It does go below zero.
So that part is important.
It's not a characteristic that is not unexpected is something that you need to be mindful of.
It makes absolute scalar.
So this works in very similar fashion but scales in a way that the training data lies between the range
of minus 1 and 1 whereas before we have 0 and 1 so for this is minus 1 and 1.
Okay.
So there is some underlying assumptions with this is that it's meant for data that's already center
at zero.
Okay so that all sparse data but at this center around zero.
So that the one part that you need to keep in mind and if you haven't center your data then you're going
to have a math problem that doesn't actually center for you.
This is part of the reason why we don't always use this is we use another method was to our come to
in a minute.
So just a quick revision why have we cover.
We've cover standardization and we have cover min max and we have cover Max absolute color.
I'm going to lightly touch on these two scaling sparse data.
Quite often when you sent a sparse data you destroy the sparse construction of data and it's not exactly
the more sensible things to do.
Okay so that's one thing to keep in mind.
Sometimes it makes sense to scale sparse inputs especially of features on different scale.
Okay.
So you can actually use max apps color or Max apps underscore scalar for that.
But I won't go into details for this.
Please refer the link to provide in this notebook.
The other thing is scaling versus highlighting sometimes is not enough to sentence go the features independently
since the model itself can take and make further assumptions on the linear independent of the feature.
So sometimes to address it you do need to actually apply principle component analysis to remove remove
the what we call linear correlation across features.
Now what do I mean by that sometimes between features down correlations and sometimes this is called
multi continuity especially if is actually very strong.
We often apply the composition using PCH to remove that.
So that's the one thing to keep in mind as another arsenal in your tool box for you to pull it out.
Should you actually observe that right.
Normalization is the process of scaling your individual sample to have unit Norm okay.
And this is the actual algorithm itself but there are two types of far normalization L1 normalization
and now to the L1 is basically what we call least absolute deviations and the L2 is least squares.
So one is using the absolute operator while the other one is using the brackets square or least squares
normalization technique
so let's look at the two different types of normalization.
An example of them.
Remember L1 is really least absolute deviation L2 is least square.
So running on the first one.
This is normalize using the L to NOM.
You get this.
OK.
The reality is that you are not going to be able to really differentiate between L1 L2.
It's just the actual tools and methods of normalizing your data.
Just let me remind you what normalization is.
Normalization really is to actually compress our data.
Okay.
Scaling it to have unit known.
So that's the part that we are really really aiming to perform here.
There are other ways to do this.
It does provide an API to fit and transform your data.
Not crucial but it's something that you can actually utilize and make use of.
And essentially this is actually same as this line anyway.
So it's just a different way of doing it.
Okay.
The last part really is by narration feature by normalization is really the process of setting a threshold
and then converting your data using that threat threshold to decide whether there should be a zero.
Or it should be a one.
Okay.
So meaning converting it to boolean 0 or 1 or slightly different.
So looking at this here what we can probably have done here is really just withdraw data and using the
binaries a notice that is become switching in the 0 1.
And what we do want to know is that what exactly is the threshold and the threshold here is present
at zero and above zero then is a one if it's less than zero then it's a minus one.
So if it's less than zero.
Dennis zero.
So that's really the whole idea.
Of course you can actually change the threshold and transform the data.
Changing the threshold depends on the situation and the projects that you work on.
You can actually do that.
And notice that there are some variation especially when it comes to this zero is both minus zero point
five.
Hence it's actually a one.
Right.
How about when you're working with categorical features non numeric data to show you two.
One is called labeling counter liberal code just encode your SO core categorical feature into a number.
The process really is from the pre processing library.
You instantiate a version of the label in Qatar and here I call a label underscore and even see you
can actually use another name that fits your purpose and then you're fit and transformed the source
data which is this one here and perform that.
And this is just a code to illustrate that for Australia 0 Hong Kong and so on.
Using it to a Singapore tree and if I provide the test data of these in different order from theirs
and I want to see what happens if I encode just transform my test data what would the result be.
Hong Kong is one coming back here as looking at my map.
Yes Hong Kong and indeed one New Zealand is two and do this or two.
I'll let you check out the Singapore and Australia has been transformed correctly or not.
Okay so this is really label and coder Kong coding your Kilgore conical value into numerical number
but they are there's no meaning to it.
Okay so that's the part that's important and one hot encoding or one of K is actually converting it
into our sparse matrix which is just purely binary result 0 or 1.
So let's bring back source of that reminder and the actual SAIC meaning the number that we used to encode
these categorical value we have to import one hot encoding and look at the so-called output or the outcome
of it.
Just remember we have to instantiate first and then the way that it needs to be taken in or transform
the data has to be in a specific manner then we've performed the fit transform and then when we print
out the one on encoding This is what it looks like.
Notice that they're all unique.
This is 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0.
They're all different.
Okay.
So that part is important then.
And if I reverse perform reversion meaning taking one number and go backward what I've done here is
that I've taken one hot encoding taking the So core zero slice meaning this is roll zero which is this
one here an inverse transform it so that I can actually see what my original value is at the first value
is actually Australia.
And sure enough it is Australia and you can do another one for the last value.
Happens to be three here.
So that's really the last portion of the basic idea under cover when it comes to data processing.
It is a very important step of machine building a machine learning model is really the data pre processing
what I've shown you here is what it looks like before and with and without pre processing and before
you're trying to scale your data and after you scale your data what happened and I told took also talked
about the four different types there is desensitization mean removal.
This is the most common type.
You have the min max meaning scaling it to a range and then you have the normalization and also binary
ization and one part that is not highlighted here is labelling encode your categorical value as well
as one hot encoding but I'm going to stop.
Thank you for watching and appreciate you following along the lesson.